# Tree
### Common Terminology
- Node - A node is the individual item/data that makes up the data structure
- Root - The root is the first/top Node in the tree
- Left Child - The node that is positioned to the left of a root or node
- Right Child - The node that is positioned to the right of a root or node
- Edge - The edge in a tree is the link between a parent and child node
- Leaf - A leaf is a node that does not contain any children
- Height - The height of a tree is determined by the number of edges from the root to the bottommost node

## Traversals
An important aspect of trees is how to traverse them. Traversing a tree allows us to search for a node, print out the contents of a tree, and much more! There are two categories of traversals when it comes to trees:

### Depth First
Here are three methods for depth first traversal:

- Pre-order: root >> left >> right
- In-order: left >> root >> right
- Post-order: left >> right >> root

*The most common way to traverse through a tree is to use recursion. With these traversals, we rely on the call stack to navigate back up the tree when we have reached the end of a sub-path.*

### Breadth First
Breadth first traversal iterates through the tree by going through each level of the tree node-by-node. So, given our starting tree one more time:
Traditionally, breadth first traversal uses a queue (instead of the call stack via recursion) to traverse the width/breadth of the tree. Let’s break down the process.

#### Binary Trees
Binary Trees restrict the number of children to two (hence our left and right children).

There is no specific sorting order for a binary tree. Nodes can be added into a binary tree wherever space allows. Here is what a binary tree looks like:

# References
https://codefellows.github.io/common_curriculum/data_structures_and_algorithms/Code_401/class-15/resources/Trees.html
