# Authentication

## Basic access authentication
basic access authentication is a method for an HTTP user agent (e.g. a web browser) to provide a user name and password when making a request. In basic HTTP authentication, a request contains a header field in the form of Authorization: Basic <credentials>, where credentials is the Base64 encoding of ID and password joined by a single colon :.
it does not require cookies, session identifiers, or login pages; rather, HTTP Basic authentication uses standard fields in the HTTP header.
it is typically used in conjunction with HTTPS to provide confidentiality.

The Authorization field is constructed as follows:

- The username and password are combined with a single colon (:). This means that the username itself cannot contain a colon.
- The resulting string is encoded into an octet sequence. The character set to use for this encoding is by default unspecified, as long as it is compatible with US-ASCII, but the server may suggest use of UTF-8 by sending the charset parameter.
- The resulting string is encoded using a variant of Base64.
- The authorization method and a space (e.g. "Basic ") is then prepended to the encoded string.

## Securing Passwords with Bcrypt Hashing Function
Many desktop applications and almost every web service including, blogs, forums eventually need to store a collection of user data and the passwords, that has to be stored using a hashing algorithm.
Cryptographic hash algorithms MD5, SHA1, SHA256, SHA512, SHA-3 are general purpose hash functions, designed to calculate a digest of huge amounts of data in as short a time as possible. Hashing is the greatest way for protecting passwords and considered to be pretty safe for ensuring the integrity of data or password.

The benefit of hashing is that if someone steals the database with hashed passwords, they only make off with the hashes and not the actual plaintext passwords.

### PROBLEMS WITH CRYPTOGRAPHIC HASH ALGORITHM
- Brute Force attack: Hashes can't be reversed, so instead of reversing the hash of the password, an attacker can simply keep trying different inputs until he does not find the right now that generates the same hash value, called brute force attack.

- Hash Collision attack: Hash functions have infinite input length and a predefined output length, so there is inevitably going to be the possibility of two different inputs that produce the same output hash. MD5, SHA1, SHA2 are vulnerable to Hash Collision Attack i.e. two input strings of a hash function that produce the same hash result.

## What is JSON Web Token?
JSON Web Token (JWT) is an open standard (RFC 7519) that defines a compact and self-contained way for securely transmitting information between parties as a JSON object. This information can be verified and trusted because it is digitally signed. JWTs can be signed using a secret (with the HMAC algorithm) or a public/private key pair using RSA or ECDSA.

## When should you use JSON Web Tokens?
Here are some scenarios where JSON Web Tokens are useful:

Authorization: This is the most common scenario for using JWT. Once the user is logged in, each subsequent request will include the JWT, allowing the user to access routes, services, and resources that are permitted with that token. Single Sign On is a feature that widely uses JWT nowadays, because of its small overhead and its ability to be easily used across different domains.

Information Exchange: JSON Web Tokens are a good way of securely transmitting information between parties. Because JWTs can be signed—for example, using public/private key pairs—you can be sure the senders are who they say they are. Additionally, as the signature is calculated using the header and the payload, you can also verify that the content hasn't been tampered with.

## What is the JSON Web Token structure?
In its compact form, JSON Web Tokens consist of three parts separated by dots (.), which are:

- Header
- Payload
- Signature

## node.bcrypt.js
A library to help you hash passwords



References
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basic_access_authentication
- https://jwt.io/introduction/
- https://thehackernews.com/2014/04/securing-passwords-with-bcrypt-hashing.html
- https://www.npmjs.com/package/bcrypt
