## OAuth

OAuth is an open standard for access delegation, commonly used as a way for Internet users to grant websites or applications access to their information on other websites but without giving them the passwords.

This mechanism is used by companies such as Amazon, Google, Facebook, Microsoft and Twitter to permit the users to share information about their accounts with third party applications or websites.
#### OAuth 1.0
On 23 April 2009, a session fixation security flaw in the 1.0 protocol was announced. It affects the OAuth authorization flow (also known as "3-legged OAuth") in OAuth Core 1.0 Section 6. Version 1.0a of the OAuth Core protocol was issued to address this issue.

#### OAuth 2.0

OAuth 2.0 has been analyzed using formal web protocol analysis. This analysis revealed that in setups with multiple authorization servers, one of which is behaving maliciously, clients can become confused about the authorization server to use and may forward secrets to the malicious authorization server (AS Mix-Up Attack). This prompted the creation of a new best current practice internet draft that sets out to define a new security standard for OAuth 2.0. Assuming a fix against the AS Mix-Up Attack in place, the security of OAuth 2.0 has been proven under strong attacker models using formal analysis.

One implementation of OAuth 2.0 with numerous security flaws has been exposed.
### Authorization
The first step of OAuth 2 is to get authorization from the user. For browser-based or mobile apps, this is usually accomplished by displaying an interface provided by the service to the user.

OAuth 2 provides several "grant types" for different use cases. The grant types defined are:

- Authorization Code for apps running on a web server, browser-based and mobile apps
- Password for logging in with a username and password (only for first-party apps)
- Client credentials for application access without a user present
- Implicit was previously recommended for clients without a secret, but has been superseded by using the Authorization Code grant with PKCE.

# Terms
authentication : is the process of verifying the identity of a person or device.

authorization : is a security mechanism used to determine user/client privileges or access levels related to system resources, including computer programs, files, services, data and application features.

encryption : the method by which information is converted into secret code that hides the information’s true meaning.

hashing : A hash function is a function which when given a key, generates an address in the table. Converting one value to another.

session : a storage that consists of information on server-side.

cookie : data, stored in small text files, on your computer.

token : a symbol representing something.

Basic Auth : a simple authentication scheme built into the HTTP protocol.

encoding : the process of converting data from one form to another.

secret : digital authentication credentials (secrets).

cryptography : a method of protecting information and communications through the use of codes, so that only those for whom the information is intended can read and process it.